---
layout: post
title:  "Hello."
date:   2022-09-10 11:27:49 -0700
categories: 
---

Hi,
We’re the Lopez-Yao family, we live in the little house with the orange flowering vines at 424 Texas St. Javier started renting here ten years ago, and Laura moved in seven years ago. We were thrilled to be able to buy the house when the previous owners decided to sell, right after we got married in 2018. 

We love this place, but as our family grows (baby Rio is now 10 months old!), we’re straining at the poor old house’s capacity. We don’t have a dining room; we don’t have closets; we don’t have a garage; there’s only one full bathroom. Upstairs is a converted attic under a hip roof, and three-fourths of the slanted ceiling is under 7 feet. When Rio’s grandparents visit, we sleep on the floor in Javier’s office (which also functions as the TV room), so that they can have our bed. Javier recently found termites under the stairs :(.

We began working with Beverly at BACH Architecture because we all shared a vision for how to stay respectful to the spirit of this house while updating it for our growing, work-from-home family. We first pursued a plan to remodel it, but between the excavation into bedrock under the existing facade (which contains serpentine and the potential for underpinning the neighbor’s foundation), the Frankenstein style (from building, in 2022+, a very visible addition on top of a 100-year old bungalow), and other issues, the cost and compromises of remodeling became infeasible for us. In building a new house, we can maximize the potential of this hilltop lot, build to modern energy standards (all-electrical, solar), and introduce an ADU to increase the housing stock in the city.

We love this neighborhood. We’re excited to have a house where we can sleep on the same floor as our baby, where we have room for Javier to have his own office (he’s an engineer at a biotech start-up working on cancer drugs), where we can park our car and stand up straight in all the rooms and sit down at an actual table to eat dinner as a family. We’re excited to bring up our child(ren) here, and to finally have space for our aging parents. Thank you for considering our project. 

> Javier and Laura
> 
> Owners/residents, 424 Texas St
